hi welcome to the written or floral
school in Boston Mass I'm dr. Steve
ritenour and it's a pleasure to welcome
you into our classroom today because
we're going to do something really cool
you're going to love this we're going to
be making an arrangement today that is
very contemporary sleek fun to do and
easy to do and I hope you enjoyed this
presentation if you look carefully
you'll notice that what I have in front
of me is a container it's got kind of a
yellowish kind of Sheen to it so it's
actually a plastic container but it's
very cool and what we've done with this
container is we have a piece of foam on
one side we also have some ivy we
actually took an ivy plant and I placed
the ivy plant over on to the other side
here so we have a live plant that's
actually incorporated into this design
I'm going to cover the pot of the ivy
with a little bit of my sheet moss we're
going to be using a combination of great
stuff in this design and the first thing
we want to do in a contemporary design
is to establish some line and there's no
better way to do it than with this stuff
this is called curly willow curly willow
is a neat neat kind of branchy stuff and
we can get it in and we can come up with
all kinds of wild looks in our design by
just placing a couple of branches of
curly willow right from the get-go now
let's start mixing some other things
with our curly willow and with our ivy
plant these are carnations but they're
not just any carnations notice that
these particular carnations have kind of
a wild color and it's really really cool
carnation these are carnations that have
been developed to give us all kinds of
interesting violets and different colors
to them and they are really striking and
we thought it would be kind of fun to
play with them they've been developed by
a company called flora Jean and they are
just awesome and we're enjoying using
them very very much notice that I'm
placing my carnations creating a line
through my design this is a really neat
kind of thing because these kinds of
designs are easy to do they're fun to do
and they really will enhance your home
you can use these just about anywhere
you can use them in an entry area you
could use them on a fireplace
of course one that's not lit you can put
them
in a in an office you could use them in
a dining room or possibly in a study and
they're really striking and notice how
easily this is coming together with just
one two three four five six of my
carnations we've created a line we're
working along this side we've got a nice
counterpoint to this and also to our
curly willow let's mix our carnations
with something else and we're going to
go with a flower that happens to be one
of my favorites these are mini gerbera
mini gerbera look at it isn't as cool
mini gerbera gerbera come in a wide
variety of colors they come in yellows
reds oranges whites and they also have
these neat little centers to them as
well and these are a miniature variety
and we're going to mix our miniature
gerbera in with our carnations one of
the neat things about contemporary
designing is we can mix all kinds of
interesting things together to come up
with really really cool results and so
I've got a line that's been formed by my
carnations now I can take some of my
miniature gerbera and work them in and
actually create a counterpoint to what
we're doing with our carnations so
notice that I'm taking these and I'm
gradually creating another line and how
this is giving me just terrific contrast
with the carnations that we've already
placed so I'm working them through and
creating another line with my mini
gerbera these are really really neat
things to play with a Tritton is floral
school in Boston we love playing with
all kinds of different styles of designs
we play with design styles that are
classical we play with some design
styles that are contemporary we like
mixing different kinds of materials
together and I think you can see how
this is really developing into a very
very interesting arrangement now one
last material I'd like to play with in
this design and it's one of my favorites
I know I say that about a lot of the
things we work with this is Heather
isn't it striking look at it it's
beautiful and look at the coverage
normally we think of Heather as
something that's used for a filler and
we are going to make use of it as a
filler here as well
but we're also going to make use of the
fact that this particular Heather has
points on it and because it has points
on it we can delineate line with it and
so I'm going to take some of my Heather
and I'm going to work some pieces in
but I'm not just going to use it to
create filler I'm going to take some of
the Heather make use of the linear
aspects of it as well and create another
line in here so notice I have something
going here and something going over here
let's take another piece of our Heather
and work it over onto this side so
notice we've got a little triangular
thing working with our Heather now I can
take advantage of the fact that Heather
has this kind of filler effect and take
some little clumps of Heather and work
it in to continue to fill in on my
design and cover my mechanics good
floral designing generally involves
covering our mechanics up we don't like
to leave our foam showing unless it
happens to be some of the spectacular
colored foams that we have available
that are really really good in terms of
of allowing the mechanic to become part
of the aesthetic of the design but
generally we do cover our foam materials
and I'm taking some of my Heather that I
have here I'm breaking it down into
smaller little pieces and then working
it into my design so that I'm covering
my mechanics quite nicely with my
Heather even while I'm using the Heather
to create mine isn't it beautiful
and so easy to notice that we've used
only one two three four five six of our
carnations
we used one two three four five six of
our mini gerbera a few pieces of curly
willow
a little bit of our Heather and we've
created something along with our ivy to
create something that's really striking
something very very contemporary in
feeling and yet so easy to achieve we
hope that you've enjoyed this little
video from Ritenour school of floral
design that written is floral school we
provide all kinds of courses we have day
courses we have evening courses we have
long courses we have short courses and
we love teaching floral design it's our
passion and we hope that by seeing this
little demonstration you feel inspired
to pull out some carnations and some
Heather and some mini gerbera and some
of your plants and to play with it to
come up with pretty things for your home
and also perhaps to come and visit us at
written or floral school in Boston and
take a lovely course with us you can
find more about our programs at WWF
Laurel school calm
we're at WWF Laurel school calm online
and we appreciate your coming in and
visiting with us today thank you